#### Algorithm Design Techniques

##### Greedy Algorithm

e.g. Dijkstra's, Prim's, Kruskal's Algorithm

It works in phases, while in each phase, a decision is made that appears to be good, without regard for future consequences, in other words, only interested in local optimum.

###### A Simple Scheduling Problem

- **With Single Processor**

  Very obvious, do the job with shortest time first, in order to reduce the average completion time.

- **With Multiple Processor**

  Pretty much the same, also start with the shortest ones, and cycling though processors. 

- **Minimizing the Final Completeion Time**

  Preferred when the same user own all the tasks.

  This problem is NP-complete. Much harder than minimizing mean completion time.

###### Huffman Codes

Another application of greedy algorithms, known as *file compression*.

If the size of a character set is C, then $\lceil log C\rceil$ bits are needed in a standard encoding.

Strategy: Allow the code length to be different between characters, and ensure the frequently occurring characters have short codes. If all characters occur with the same frequency, there will not be any savings. 

**Trie Tree**



**Huffman's Algorithm**

Description: Maintain a forest of trees. The weight of a tree is equal to the sum of the frequencies of its leaves .Select T1 and T2, two trees with smallest weight, and form a new tree with subtrees T1 and T2.

**Start**: C single-node trees, one for each character

**End**: One Tree

**Details to be considered**:

- Two-pass algorithm, not desirable dealing with large files. First pass collects the frequency 

  ans second pass does the encoding.

- The encoding information must be transmitted at the start of the compressed file, may result in larger files when the original size if very small.

###### Approximate Bin Packing

Run quickly, but not necessarily optimal.

**Question**: Given $n$ items of size $s_1,s_2,s_3,...s_n$. All sizes satisfy $0<s_i<1$. Each bin has unit capacity, pack them into the fewest number of bins.

- **On-line bin packing**: Each item must be placed in a bin before the next item can be processed.
- **Off-line bin packing**: Pack only after all the input has been read.

**On-line Algorithms**

First of all, does not guarantee optimal solution.

***THEOREM 10.1***

> There are inputs that force any on-line bin-packing algorithms to use at least $4/3$ the optimal number of bins

- **Next Fit**

  Simplest.

  When processing any item, we check to see whether it fits in the same bin as the last item. If it does, place there; otherwise, create a new bin.

***THEOREM 10.2***

> Let $m$ be the optimal number of bins required to pack a list of $I$ items. Then next fit never uses more than $2m$ bins. There exist sequences such that next fit uses $2m-2$ bins.

- **First Fit**

  Scan the bins in order and place the new item in the first bin that is large enough to hold it.

  Hence, a new bin is only created when there are no alternatives. Optimal $O(n log_n)$.

***THEOREM 10.3.**

> *Let m be the optimal number of bins required to pack a list I of items. Then first fit never uses more than $\lceil \frac{17}{10} m \rceil$ bins. There exist sequences such that first fit uses $\lceil \frac{17}{10} (m-1) \rceil$ bins.*

---

##### Divide and Conquer

**Divide**: Smaller problems are solved recursively(Except, base cases)

**Conquer**: The solution to the original problem is then formed from the solutions to the subproblems.

Subproblems are generally assumed to be disjoint.

###### Closest Points Problem

___

##### Dynamic Programming

Rewriting the recursive algorithm as a non-recursive algorithm that systematically records the answers to the subproblems in a table.

###### Using a Table instead of Recursion

```c
// Inefficient algorithms
unsigned int fib(unsigned int n){
    if (n<=2)
      	return 1;
    else
        return fib(n-1)+fib(n-2);
}

//Linear Algorithm to compute Fibonacci numbers
unsigned int fibonacci(unsigned int n){
    unsigned int i, last,next_to_last,answer;
    if (n<=2)
        return 1;
    last = next_to last = 1;
    for (i=3;i<=n;i++){
        answer = last + next_to_last;
        next_to_last = last;
        last = answer;
    }
    return answer
}
```



###### Ordering Matrix Multiplication

###### Optimal Binary Search Tree

###### All-pairs Shortest Path

---

##### Randomized Algorithms

###### Random Number Generator

###### Skip Lists

###### Primality Testing

---

##### Backtracking Algorithms

###### The Turnpike Reconstruction Problem

###### Games