#### Priority Queues(Heaps)

- Efficient implementation of the priority queue **ADT**
- Use of priority queues
- Advanced implementations of priority queues

##### Model

A priority queue allows at least:

- *Insert*
- *Delete_min*

Priority queues can be used for external sorting,and implementation of *greedy algorithm*,and discrete event simulation.

##### Simple Implementations

- LL

  - Use a simple linked list,performing insertions at the front in `O(1)`,and traversing the list, which requires `O(n)`to delete the minimum.
  - Or insist the list be always kept sorted, which makes insertions expensive `O(n)`, and *delete_min* cheap `O(1)`

  Given the fact there are never more *delete_mins* than insertions, the former is probably the better idea.

- BST

  This gives `O(log n)` for both operations. Overkill as it supports a host of operations that are not required.

##### Binary Heap

Heaps have two properties, namely a structure property and a heap order property.

Like AVL trees, an operation on a heap can destroy one of the properties, so a heap operation must not terminate until all heap properties are in order.

###### Structure Property

A heap is a binary tree that is completed filled, with the possible exception of the bottom level, also known as a complete binary tree.

A complete binary tree of height h has between 2<sup>h</sup> and 2<sup>h+1</sup>-1 nodes. And it is so regular,it can be represented in an array and no pointers are necessary.

For any element in array index i, its left child is `2i`, right child is `2i+1`, parent is `i/2`. 

The limitation of an array implementation is that need to estimate maximum heap size in advance.

**Typical Priority Queue Declaration**

```c
struct heap_struct {
    /*Maximum # that can fit in the heap*/
    unsigned int max_heap_size;
    /*Current # of elements in the heap*/
    unsigned int size;
    element_type *elements;
};
typedef struct heap_struct *PRIORITY_QUEUES
```

**Creates an empty heap**

```c
PRIORITY_QUEUE create_pg(unsigned int max_elements){
    PRIORITY_QUEUE H;
   	if (max_elements<MIN_PQ_SIZE)
        error("Priority queue size is too small");
    H =(PRIORITY_QUEUE) malloc(sizeof(struct heap_struct));
    if (H == NULL)
        fatal_error("Out of space!!!");
    H->elements = (element_type *)malloc((max_element+1)*sizeof(element_type));
    if(H->elements == NULL)
        fatalerror("Out of space!!!")
    H->max_heap_size = max_elements;
    H->size = 0;
    h->elements[0] = MIN_DATA; /* ? */
    return H;
        
}
```

###### Heap Order Property

Allows operations to be performed quickly.

Smallest element should be root,and any node should be smaller than all of its descendants.

Definition: In a heap, for every node X, the key in th parent of X is smaller than(or equal to) the key in X, with obvious exception of the root.

###### Basic Heap Operations

- Insert

  Create a hole in the next available location. If x can be placed in the hole without violating heap order->done. Otherwise we slide the element that is in the hole's parent node into the hole, thus bubbling the hole up toward the root. Keep doing this process,and this general strategy is known as *percolate up*.

  ```c
  /* H->element[0] is a sentinel */
  void insert(element_type x, PRIORITY_QUEUE H)
  {
      unsigned int i;
      if (is_full(H))
          error("Priority queue is full");
      else 
      {
          i=++H->size;
          while (H->elements[i/2]>x)
          {
              H->elements[i] = H->elements[i/2];
              i/=2;
          }
          H->elements[i] =x;
      }
  }
  ```

  Put a very small value in position 0, known as *sentinel* in order to make the while loop terminate. Avoid a test that is executed once per loop.

  Time to insert can be as much as `O(log n)`,if the element to be inserted is the new minimum and is percolated all the way to root. 

  On average, 2.607 comparisons are required,so insert moves an element up 1.607 levels.

- Delete_min

  *Percolate down*. 

  Note when there are an even number of elements in the heap, and the one node that has only one child is encountered, thus need an extra test. A tricky solution would be ensuring there is always a value higher than any in the heap.

  ```c
  element_type delete_min(PRIORITY_QUEUE H)
  {
      unsigned int i, child;
      element_type min_element,last_element;
      if (is_empty(H))
      {
          error("PRIORITY QUEUE is empty")
          return H->elements[0]
      }
      min_element = H->elements[1]
      last_element = H->elements[H->size--]
      for(i=1;i*2<=H->size;i=child)
      {
          /*find smaller child*/
          child = i*2;
          if ((child!= H->size) && (H->elements[child+1])<H->elements[child])
              child++;
          /*percolate one level*/
          if (last_element>H->elements[child])
              H->elements[i]=H->elements[child];
          else
              break;       
      }
      H->elements[i] = last_element;
      return min_element;
  }
  ```

  Both Average and worst case is `O(log n)`

###### Other Heap Operations

Practically it is important to know where elements are, some other data structures, such as has table, must be used in addition to the heap. Then the following operations have logarithmic worst-case time:

- Decrease_key

  `decrease_key(x,5,H)`lowers the value of the key at position x by a positive amount 5. This also requires a *percolate up* to fix heap order. 

  Applications: Useful to system administrators to make their programs run with highest priority

- Increase_key

  `increase_key(x,5,H)`increases the value of the key at position x by a positive amount 5. This also requires a *percolate down* to fix heap order. 

  Applications: Many schedulers drop the priority of a process that is consuming excessive *CPU* time

- Delete

  `delete(x,H)` removes the node at position x from the heap. It is done by first `decrease_key(x,infinity,H)`,followed by `delete_min(H)`.

  Applications: When a process is terminated by a user, it must be removed from the priority queue.

- Build_heap

  `build_heap(H)` takes n input keys and places them into an empty heap.

  `O(n)` average and `O(n log n)`worst-case

THEOREM 6.1

> For the Perfect Binary Tree of height h containing 2<sup>h+1</sup> -1 nodes, the sum of heights of the nodes is 2<sup>h+1</sup> -1 -(h+1).



##### Applications of Priority Queue

Besides Operating systems design and graph algorithms...

###### The selection Problem

With an input of a list of n elements, which can be totally ordered, and an integer k, find the kth largest element.

**Algorithm 1A**: read elements into an array and sort them, if using a simple sorting algorithm, O(n<sup>2</sup>)

**Algorithm 1B**: read k elements into an array and sort them, the smallest is in the kth position. Then process the remaining element one by one. `O(n*k)`

**Algorithm 6A**: read k elements into an array, apply the *build_heap* algorithm, then perform k *delete_min* operations. The last element extracted is the answer. `O(n)` for construct the heap, `O(log n)` for each delete, so total running time is `O(n+klogn)`

Notice that if `k=n`, and values are recorded when they leave, this input file is sorted within `O(n logn)` time,this idea is known as *heapsort*

**Algorithm 6B**: First k elements are placed into the heap in total time`O(k)` using *build_heap*, time to process the remaining elements is `O(1)`:test if the element goes into the S;`O(log k)` delete and insert new element if necessary. thus total running time is `O(n log k)`, worst case is when k is the median,giving` O(n log n)`.

###### Event Simulation

**Problem**:We have a system, such as a bank, where customers arrive and wait on a line until one of k tellers is available. Customer arrival is governed by a probability distribution function, as is the service time (the amount of time to be served once a teller is available). We are interested in statistics such as **how long on average a customer has to wait** or **how long the line might be**.

**ANS**: If there are `C` customers (and thus `2C` events) and `k` tellers, then the running time of the simulation would be `O(C log(k+ 1))` because computing and processing each event takes `O(logH)`, where `H = k + 1` is the size of the heap.

##### D-Heaps

It is generalization of binary heaps, each node has d children.

A d-heap is much more shallow, thus improving the running time of inserts, but *delete_min* becomes more expensive.

Use of array will seriously increase running time, as division by d cannot be implemented by bit shift.

The most glaring weakness of heap implementation, is the inability to perform *finds* ,and combining two heaps into one. This operation is known as *merge*.

##### Leftist Heaps

##### Skew Heaps

##### Binomial Heaps

