Companion web site: https://wps.pearsoned.com/ecs_kurose_compnetw_6/216/55463/14198700.cw/index.html

#### Chap 1 Review Questions

##### 1.1

###### R1. What is the difference between a host and an end system? List several different types of end systems. Is a Web server an end system?

No difference. End systems include PCs,workstations,Web servers,mail servers,etc.

###### R2. The word protocol is often used to describe diplomatic relations. How does Wikipedia describe diplomatic protocol?

From Wikipedia: Diplomatic protocol is commonly described as a set of international courtesy rules. These well-established and time-honored rules have made it easier for nations  and  people  to  live  and  work  together.  Part  of  protocol  has  always  been  the acknowledgment  of  the  hierarchical  standing  of  all  present.  Protocol  rules  are  based on the principles of civility.

###### R3. Why are standards important for protocols?

Standards  are  important  for  protocols  so  that  people  can  create  networking  systems and products that inter-operate.

##### 1.2 

###### R4. List six access technologies. Classify each one as home access, enterprise access, or wide-area wireless access.

- Dial-up modem over telephone line: home
- DSL over telephone line:home or small office
- Cable to HFC: home
- 100 Mbps switched Ethernet: enterprise
- Wifi(802.11): home and enterprise
- 3G and 4G and 5G(?): wide-area access

###### R5. HFC transmission rate dedicated or shared among users? Are collisions possible in a downstream HFC channel? Why or why not?

HFC bandwidth is shared among the users. On the downstream channel, all packets emanate from a single source, namely, the head end. Thus, there are no collisions in a downstream channel.  Upstreams can have collisions if multiple stations transmit simultaneously.

###### R6. List the available residential access technologies in your city. For each type of access, provide the advertised downstream rate, upstream rate, and monthly price.

- Dial-up
- DSL
- Cable modem
- fiber-to-home

###### R7. What is the transmission rate of Ethernet LANs?

10 Mbps,100 Mbps; 1Gbps; 10Gbps.

###### R8. What are some of the physical media that Ethernet can run over?

Commonly runs over twisted-pair copper wire, also can run over fiber optic links.

###### R9. Dial-up modems, HFC, DSL and FTTH are all used for residential access.For each of these access technologies, provide a range of transmission rates and comment on whether the transmission rate is shared or dedicated.

- Dial up modems: up to 56Kbps; dedicated
- ADSL: up to 24 Mbps downstream, 2.5 Mbps upstream; dedicated
- HFC: up to 42.8 Mbps downstream, 30.7 Mbps upstream; shared
- FTTH: 10-20 Mbps downstream, 2-10 Mbps upstream; dedicated

###### R10. Describe the most popular wireless Internet access technologies today. Com-pare and contrast them.

- Wifi(802.11): Users transmit/receive packets to/from an base staion(i.e. wireless access point) within a radius of a few ten of meters. The base station is typically connected to the wired Internet and thus serves to connect wireless users to the wired network.
- 3G and 4G wide-area wireless access networks. Packets are transmitted over the same wireless infrastructure used for cellular telephony, with the base station thus being managed by a telecommunications provider. This provides wireless access to users within a radius of tens of kilometers of the base station.

##### 1.3

###### R11. Suppose there is exactly one packet switch between a sending host and a receiving host. The transmission rates between the sending host and the switch and between the switch and the receiving host are R1 and R2, respectively. Assuming that the switch uses store-and-forward packet switching,what is the total end-to-end delay to send a packet of length L? (Ignore queuing, propagation delay, and processing delay.)

$L/R_1 + L/R_2$

###### R12. What advantage does a circuit-switched network have over a packet-switched network? What advantages does TDM have over FDM in a circuit-switched network?

Guarantee certain amount of end-to-end bandwidth for the duration of a call. FDM requires sophisticated analog hardware to shift signal into appropriate frequency bands. 

###### R13. Suppose users share a 2 Mbps link. Also suppose each user transmits continuously at 1 Mbps when transmitting, but each user transmits only 20 percent of the time. (See the discussion of statistical multiplexing in Section 1.3.)

1. **When circuit switching is used, how many users can be supported?**

   2 Users.

2. **For the remainder of this problem, suppose packet switching is used. Why will there be essentially no queuing delay before the link if two or fewer users transmit at the same time? Why will there be a queuing delay if three users transmit at the same time?**

   Maximum of 2Mbps will be required if two or fewer users transmit simultaneously, so no queuing delay. Other wise, exceeding the given bandwidth will result in queuing delay.

3. **Find the probability that a given user is transmitting.**

   0.2. (each user transmits only 20 percent of the time)

4. **Suppose now there are three users. Find the probability that at any given time, all three users are transmitting simultaneously. Find the fraction of time during which the queue grows.**

   $0.2*0.2*0.2 = 0.008$ Fraction of time during which the queue grows equals to the probability that all three users are transmitting simultaneously.

###### R14. Why will two ISPs at the same level of the hierarchy often peer with each other? How does an IXP earn money?

If they don't, they will have to send traffic to each other through an intermediate ISP, which they have to pay for carrying the traffic. An Internet Exchange Points(IXP) is a meeting point where multiple ISPs can connect and/or peer together. It earns money by charing each of the ISPs connected to it a relatively small fee, which may depend on the amount of traffic sent to or received from the IXP.

###### R15. Some content providers have created their own networks. Describe Google’s network. What motivates content providers to create these networks?

Google's private network connects together all its data centers, big and small. Traffic between the Google data centers passes over its **private network rather than over the public Internet**. Many of these data centers are located in, or close to, lower tier ISPs. Therefore,  when  Google delivers content to a user,  it often can **bypass higher tier ISP**s.

- More control over the user experience
- save  money by sending less traffic into provider network
- In countries where **net neutrality** doesn't apply, avoid extra payments

##### 1.4 

###### R16. Consider sending a packet from a source host to a destination host over a fixed route. List the delay components in the end-to-end delay. Which of these delays are constant and which are variable?

- processing delay: constant
- Queuing delay: variable
- Transmission delay: constant
- Propagation delay :constant

###### R17. Visit the Transmission Versus Propagation Delay applet at the companion Web site. Among the rates, propagation delay, and packet sizes available,find a combination for which the sender finishes transmitting before the first bit of the packet reaches the receiver. Find another combination for which the first bit of the packet reaches the receiver before the sender finishes transmitting.

- 1000km, 1 Mbps, 100 bytes
- 100km, 1 Mbps, 100 bytes

###### R18. How long does it take a packet of length 1,000 bytes to propagate over a link of distance 2,500 km, propagation speed 2.5 · 10^8 m/s, and transmission rate 2 Mbps? More generally, how long does it take a packet of length L to propagate over a link of distance d, propagation speed s, and transmission rate R bps? Does this delay depend on packet length? Does this delay depend on transmission rate?

- ${2500*1000} / {2.5 * 10^8} + 1000/{2*10^6} = 1.5 * 10^{-2} $ 

  should be 10 msec, since only asks for propagation delay

- d/s

- no

- no

###### R19. Suppose Host A wants to send a large file to Host B. The path from Host A to Host B has three links, of rates $R1= 500 kbps, R2= 2 Mbps, and R3= 1 Mbps$.

1. **Assuming no other traffic in the network, what is the throughput for the file transfer?**
   - 500 kbps
2. **Suppose the file is 4 million bytes. Dividing the file size by the throughput,roughly how long will it take to transfer the file to Host B?**
   - 64s (size of file is in **bytes**)
3. Repeat (a) and (b), but now with R2 reduced to 100 kbps.
   - 100 kbps
   - 320s

###### R20. Suppose end system A wants to send a large file to end system B. At a very high level, describe how end system A creates packets from the file. When one of these packets arrives to a packet switch, what information in the packet does the switch use to determine the link onto which the packet is forwarded? Why is packet switching in the Internet analogous to driving from one city to another and asking directions along the way?

- End system A breaks the large file into chunks. It adds header to each chunk, thereby generating  multiple  packets  from  the  file.  The  header  in  each  packet  includes  the IP address  of  the  destination(end  system  B)
- The  packet  switch  uses  the  destination IP address in  the  packet to  determine  the  outgoing  link.
- Asking  which  road  to  take  is analogous  to  a  packet  asking  which  outgoing  link  it  should  be  forwarded  on,  given the packet’s destination address.

###### R21. Visit the Queuing and Loss applet at the companion Web site. What is the maximum emission rate and the minimum transmission rate? With those rates, what is the traffic intensity? Run the applet with these rates and deter-mine how long it takes for packet loss to occur. Then repeat the experiment a second time and determine again how long it takes for packet loss to occur.Are the values different? Why or why not?

- 500 packets/s; 350 packets/s
- $10/7$
- 9 msecs
- Different due to randomness in the emission process

##### 1.5 

###### R22. List five tasks that a layer can perform. Is it possible that one (or more) of these tasks could be performed by two (or more) layers?

- Error control
- Flow control
- Segmentation and reassembly
- Multiplexing
- Connection set up

These tasks can duplicate at different layers. e.g. error control is provided at more than one layer.

###### R23. What are the five layers in the Internet protocol stack? What are the principal responsibilities of each of these layers?

- Application Layer
- Transport Layer
- Network Layer
- Link Layer
- Physical Layer

###### R24. What is an application-layer message? A transport-layer segment? A network-layer datagram? A link-layer frame?

- data to be sent
- previous + transport-layer header
- previous + network-layer header
- previous + link-layer header

###### R25. Which layers in the Internet protocol stack does a router process? Which layers does a link-layer switch process? Which layers does a host process?

- Network, link and physical layer (modern routers act as firewalls or caching components, and process Transport layer as well)
- Link layer and Physical Layer
- Hosts process all 5 layers

##### 1.6

###### R26. What is the difference between a virus and a worm?

- Virus need the human interaction to spread
- No user replication

###### R27. Describe how a botnet can be created, and how it can be used for a DDoS attack.

Creation of a botnet requires an attacker to find vulnerability in some application or system  (e.g.  exploiting  the  buffer  overflow  vulnerability  that  might  exist  in  an application). After finding the vulnerability, the attacker needs to scan for hosts that are  vulnerable.  The  target  is  basically  to  compromise  a  series  of  systems  by exploiting  that  particular  vulnerability.    Any  system  that  is  part  of  the  botnet  can automatically scan its environment and propagate by exploiting the vulnerability. An important  property  of  such  botnets  is  that  the  originator  of  the  botnet  can  remotely control  and  issue  commands  to  all  the  nodes  in  the  botnet.  Hence,  it  becomes possible  for  the  attacker  to  issue  a  command  to  all  the  nodes,  that  target  a  single node(for  example,  all  nodes  in  the  botnet  might  be  commanded  by  the  attacker  to send  a  TCP  SYN  message  to  the  target,  which  might  result  in  a  TCP  SYN  flood attack at the target).

###### R28. Suppose Alice and Bob are sending packets to each other over a computer network. Suppose Trudy positions herself in the network so that she can capture all the packets sent by Alice and send whatever she wants to Bob;she can also capture all the packets sent by Bob and send whatever she wants to Alice. List some of the malicious things Trudy can do from this position.

Trudy  can  pretend  to  be  Bob  to  Alice  (and  vice-versa)  and  partially  or  completely modify  the  message(s)  being  sent  from  Bob  to  Alice.  For  example,  she  can  easily change  the  phrase  “Alice,  I owe you 1000”  to  “Alice,  I owe you $10,000”. Furthermore, Trudy  can  even  drop  the  packets  that  are  being  sent  by  Bob  to  Alice (and vise-versa), even if the packets from Bob to Alice are encrypted.