###### P1.  True or false?

- A user requests a Web page that consists of some text and three images. For this page, the client will send one request message and receive four response messages. ~~**T**~~ ~~F~~
- two distinct Web pages (for example, www.mit.edu/research.html and www.mit.edu/students.html) can be sent over the same persistent connection. **T**
- With non-persistent connections between browser and origin server, it is possible for a single TCP segment to carry two distinct HTTP request messages **F**
- The Date: header in the HTTP response message indicates when the object in the response was last modified. ~~**T**~~ **F**
- HTTP response messages never have an empty message body. **F**

###### P2.  Read RFC 959 for FTP. List all of the client commands that are supported by the RFC.

- Access control commands:

  **USER, PASS, ACT, CWD, CDUP, SMNT, REIN, QUIT.**

- Transfer parameter commands:

  **PORT, PASV, TYPE STRU, MODE**

- Service commands:

  **RETR, STOR, STOU, APPE, ALLO, REST, RNFR, RNTO, ABOR, DELE, RMD, MRD, PWD, LIST, NLST, SITE, SYST, STAT, HELP, NOOP.**

###### P3.  Consider an HTTP client that wants to retrieve a Web document at a given URL. The IP address of the HTTP server is initially unknown. What transport and application-layer protocols besides HTTP are needed in this scenario?

~~TCP and DNS.~~

Application layer protocols: DNS and HTTP

Transport layer protocols: UDP for DNS; TCP for HTTP

###### P4.

1. What is the URL of the document requested by the browser?

   http://gaia.cs.umass.edu/cs453/index.html

2. What version of HTTP is the browser running?

   1.1

3. Does the browser request a non-persistent or a persistent connection?

   persistent

4. What is the IP address of the host on which the browser is running?

   cannot tell

5. What type of browser initiates this message? Why is the browser type needed in an HTTP request message?

   Mozilla/5.0. The browser type information is needed by the server to send different
   versions of the same object to different types of browsers.

###### P5.

1. Was the server able to successfully find the document or not? What time was the document reply provided?

   Yes. 07 Mar 2008 12:39:45GMT

2. When was the document last modified?

   10 Dec 2005 18:27:46 GMT

3. How many bytes are there in the document being returned?

   3874 bytes.

4. What are the first 5 bytes of the document being returned? Did the server agree to a persistent connection?

   <!doc . Agreed

###### P6.  Obtain the HTTP/1.1 specification (RFC 2616). Answer the following questions:

1. Explain the mechanism used for signaling between the client and server to indicate that a persistent connection is being closed. Can the client, the server, or both signal the close of a connection

   either the client or the server can indicate to the other that it is going to close the persistent connection. It does so by including the connection-token "close" in the Connection-header field of the http request/reply.

2. What encryption services are provided by HTTP?

   HTTP does not provide any encryption services.

3. Can a client open three or more simultaneous connections with a given server?

   Clients that use persistent connections should limit the number of simultaneous connections that they maintain to a given server. A single-user client **SHOULD NOT maintain more than 2** connections with any server or proxy.”

4. Either a server or a client may close a transport connection between them if either one detects the connection has been idle for some time. Is it possible that one side starts closing a connection while the other side is transmitting data via this connection? Explain.

   Possible.

​	

###### P7. Suppose within your Web browser you click on a link to obtain a Web page. The IP address for the associated URL is not cached in your local host, so a DNS lookup is necessary to obtain the IP address. Suppose that n DNS servers are visited before your host receives the IP address from DNS; the successive visits incur an RTT of RTT1, . . ., RTTn. Further suppose that the Web page associated with the link contains exactly one object, consisting of a small amount of HTML text. Let RTT0 denote the RTT between the local host and the server containing the object. Assuming zero transmission time of the object, how much time elapses from when the client clicks on the link until the client receives the object?

$2RTT_{0}+RTT_{1}+...+RTT_n$

###### P8. suppose the HTML file references eight very small objects on the same server. Neglecting transmission times, how much time elapses with

- Non-persistent HTTP with no parallel TCP connections?

  $18RTT_{0}+RTT_{1}+...+RTT_n$

- Non-persistent HTTP with the browser configured for 5 parallel connections?

  $6RTT_{0}+RTT_{1}+...+RTT_n$

- Persistent HTTP

  $3RTT_{0}+RTT_{1}+...+RTT_n$

###### P9. Consider Figure 2.12, for which there is an institutional network connected to the Internet. Suppose that the average object size is 850,000 bits and that the average request rate from the institution’s browsers to the origin servers is 16 requests per second.  Also suppose that the amount of time it takes from when the router on the Internet side of the access link forwards an HTTP request until it receives the response is 3 seconds on average. Model the total average response time as the sum of the average access delay(that is, the delay from Internet router to institution router) and the average Internet delay. For the average access delay, use Δ/(1 – Δb), where Δis the average time required to send an object over the access link and b is the arrival rate of objects to the access link.

1. Find the total average response time

   Average Internet delay: $850,000/15,000,000=0.0567 s$

   Traffic intensity: $16 * 0.0567=0.907$

   Average access delay: $0.0567/(1-0.907)=0.6 s$

   Total: $3.6s$

2. Now suppose a cache is installed in the institutional LAN. Suppose the miss rate is 0.4. Find the total response time.

   Average access delay:$0.0567/(1-(0.4)0.907)=0.089 s$

   Total: $0.6* 0 + 0.4*3.089 = 1.24 s$

###### P10. Consider a short, 10-meter link, over which a sender can transmit at a rate of 150 bits/sec in both directions. Suppose that packets containing data are 100,000 bits long, and packets containing only control (e.g., ACK or hand-shaking) are 200 bits long. Assume that N parallel connections each get 1/N of the link bandwidth. Now consider the HTTP protocol, and suppose that each downloaded object is 100 Kbits long, and that the initial downloaded object contains 10 referenced objects from the same sender. Would parallel downloads via parallel instances of non-persistent HTTP make sense in this case? Now consider persistent HTTP. Do you expect significant gains over the non-persistent case? Justify and explain your answer.

- non-persistent with parallel

  $(200 / 150+T \mathrm{p}+200 / 150+T \mathrm{p}+200 / 150+T \mathrm{p}+100,000 / 150+T \mathrm{p})
  +(200 /(150 / 10)+T \mathrm{p}+200 /(150 / 10)+T \mathrm{p}+200 /(150 / 10)+T \mathrm{p}+100,000 /(150 / 10)+T \mathrm{p})
  =7377+8 * \mathrm{Tp}(\text { seconds) }$

- persistent

  $(200 / 150+T \mathrm{p}+200 / 150+T \mathrm{p}+200 / 150+T \mathrm{p}+100,000 / 150+T \mathrm{p})
  +10^{*}(200 / 150+T \mathrm{p}+100,000 / 150+T \mathrm{p})
  =7351+24^{*} \mathrm{Tp}(\text { seconds) }$

Hence ,less than 1 percent better.

###### P11.  Consider the scenario introduced in the previous problem. Now suppose that the link is shared by Bob with four other users. Bob uses parallel instances of non-persistent HTTP, and the other four users use non-persistent HTTP with-out parallel downloads.

1. Do Bob’s parallel connections help him get Web pages more quickly? Why or why not?

   Yes, because Bob has more connections, he can get a larger share of the link bandwidth.

2. If all five users open five parallel instances of non-persistent HTTP, then would Bob’s parallel connections still be beneficial? Why or why not?

   Yes, Bob still needs to perform parallel downloads; otherwise he will get less bandwidth than the other four users.

###### P13. What is the difference between MAIL FROM: in SMTP and From: in the mail message itself?

- The MAIL FROM: in SMTP is a message from the SMTP client that identifies the sender of the mail message to the SMTP server. 

- The From: on the mail message itself is NOT an SMTP message, but rather is just a line in the body of the mail message.

###### P14.  How does SMTP mark the end of a message body? How about HTTP? Can HTTP use the same method as SMTP to mark the end of a message body?Explain

- SMTP uses a line containing only a period to mark the end of a message body.
- HTTP uses “Content-Length header field” to indicate the length of a message body.
- No, HTTP cannot use the method used by SMTP, because HTTP message could be binary data, whereas in SMTP, the message body must be in 7-bit ASCII format.

###### P15.  Read RFC 5321 for SMTP. What does MTA stand for? Consider the following received spam email (modified from a real spam email). Assuming only the originator of this spam email is malicious and all other hosts are honest,identify the malicious host that has generated this spam email

- MTA stands for Mail Transfer Agent. A host sends the message to an MTA. The message then follows a sequence of MTAs to reach the receiver’s mail reader.
- An honest MTA should report where it receives the message. Notice that in this message, “asusus-4b96 ([58.88.21.177])” does not report from where it received the email. Since we assume only the originator is dishonest, so “asusus-4b96 ([58.88.21.177])” must be the originator.

###### P16.  Read the POP3 RFC, RFC 1939. What is the purpose of the **UIDL** POP3 command?

**UIDL** abbreviates “unique-ID listing”. When a POP3 client issues the **UIDL** command, the server responds with the unique message ID for all of the messages present in the user's mailbox. This command is useful for “download and keep”. By maintaining a file that lists the messages retrieved during earlier sessions, the client can use the **UIDL** command to determine which messages on the server have already been seen.

