#### Packages

*Package* is a collection of functions and data. You declare a package with the *package* keyword.

Convention is to use lowercase characters.

```go
package even	//start own namespace

func Even(i int)bool{ 	//Exported function
    return i%2 == 0
}

func odd (i int)bool {	//private function
    return i%2 == 1
}
```

Names that start with a capital letter are exported and may be use outside your package

Not just functions, all other labels defined in the package:

- **Public** begin with a **capital** letter
- **Private** begin with a **lowercase** letter



##### Identifiers

- When a package is imported (with *import*), the package name becomes the accessor for the contents.

- The package name is only the default name, and can be overridden to by providing own name.

  ```go
  import bar "byte"
  ```

- The package name is the base name of its source directory,e.g.

  he package in *src/pkg/compress/gzip* is imported as *compress/gzip* but has name *gzip*,

- use MixedCaps or mixedCaps not ~~mixed_cap~~



##### Document packages

Every package should have a *package comment*, a block comment preceding the *package* clause. e.g. from "regexp" package

```go
/*The regexp package implements a simple library forregular expressions.
The syntax of the regular expressions accepted is:
regexp:
	concatenation  '|' concatenation
*/
package regexp
```

Each defined ( and exported) function should have a small line of text documenting the behavior of the function.e.g. from "fmt" package

```go
// Printf formats according to a format specifier and writes to standard
// output. It returns the number of bytes written and any write error
// encountered.
func Printf(format string, a ...interface) (n int, err error)
```

##### Testing packages

In Go it is customary to write (unit) test for your package.

`go test` tuns all the test functions. Test files reside in the package directory and are named *_test.go, just like other Go programs, but `go test` will only execute these functions. Each test function has the same signature and its name should start with *Test*:

```go
func TestXxx(t *testing.T)
```

> Writing new packages should go hand in hand with writing (some) documentation and test functions. It will make your code better band it shows that you really put in the effort.

Go also allows incorporating example functions which serve as documentation and tests. These functions need to start with *Example*.

```go
func ExamplEven(){
    if Even(2) {
        fmt.Printf("Is even\n")
    }
    //Output:
    //is even
}
```

